my name is mark Sam sandwich I'm an
artist I live in work in Jersey City my
work is based on imagery that I that I
create as a record of like my feelings
and my emotions and my philosophies and
my ideas
water with flowers is an artwork that
went viral in October of 2014 it's a
piece of street art that I did in Austin
Texas during South by Southwest I took a
photo of it put it on my website put it
on my social media and then yeah a few
months later in October I noticed some
tumblr account I had posted it taken
from my website and it had like a
quarter-million notes on it that was the
first viral artwork that I had made it's
snow balled like crazy I had a bunch of
celebrities posted Cara Delevingne I
posted it and other big Instagram
accounts and I think within like two
months I totaled 12 million impressions
just on Instagram every time somebody
would like crop it or put a filter on it
or modify it or add text to the top of
it like a quote I'd screenshot it and
then what I did was I created a gif for
an animation of the image degrading
through social media essentially I sent
that gif over to a friend I know at
advice magazine and they wrote an
article about the piece going viral it
was incredible to see something that I
had made become so ubiquitous and
culture and it's only it's only grown
since then it just feels good to know
that my creativity is being experienced
by the people
I do a lot of public art it started out
as me just painting on giant pieces of
plywood people were just taking them off
the street and bringing in their homes
the coolest part about the street art
presence has been months later I would
through random circumstances find or
meet the people that took those things
in the first time was at a wedding
in Brooklyn and I'm talking to someone
and she's like what do you do and I was
like oh I'm an artist he's like oh
what's your last name or what's your
name and I was like Sam Santa [ __ ]
and she's like no way and I was like
what do you mean no way I was like you
don't know me have nobody and she's like
my my husband and I have your artwork in
our apartment he lived in the building
that I put it up put it next to I've
been working with him ever since then he
curates our work for hotels and I've met
a lot of really cool people through the
street art presence so all of my
drawings start out on transparency paper
I'll do a version of it in pencil and
then usually I go through a couple
iterations before I have one that I like
so you can see the differences are
usually really small but all of these
are done with with pen and ink which is
old-school this kind of thing and
pencils and pens are great because you
have a really consistent point and you
can run as long as you'd like
but there isn't flexibility in the width
of the stroke so this is really the
ideal tool because I can I can run the
ink for a long time and I can also vary
the width depending on the pressure that
I put on the pen I've removed all color
from my from my work and and I've scaled
it down to small monochromatic prints I
hope that they paint a portrait of Who I
am as a person I spent a lot of time
thinking about like what the evolution
of this series is gonna be like I build
everything in my studio and I've always
been very hands-on with everything and
I've never really found a way to to like
merge or marry both of those passions of
like creating imagery
and construction or or or architecture
so this year I finally found a way to do
that and the installation we're gonna do
is made out of concrete in wood and it
essentially is like an altar or like a
pavilion we're gonna put it flanking the
sides of a sidewalk gonna be able to see
the installation as you're walking head
on into it and then and then on the
insides of it there's gonna be artwork
as well
I forgot the two painted parts of the
installation the two painted parts of
the installation I just feel bad that we
kind of did all this running around we
have to pack it up now
I do love the spontaneity of street art
and end of public art and I want to
provide those kinds of experiences where
where you're in New York and you're just
walking and you're doing the same walk
you do every day or maybe you're just
exploring an area that you never seen
before
and you come across something that isn't
supposed to be there but as is in some
way fascinating I've always loved the
idea of contributing some sort of
feeling to New York City
to me art is the most important thing in
my life it's the thing that allows me to
not only live a fulfilling existence but
it's an answer to so many things for me
I'm a very lonely person and I'm lonely
because not because I don't have people
around me in my life that I love there's
like this unbridgeable distance between
me and every other person on planet
earth and we can't actually relate down
to the finest granular details of our
experiences in some of the experiences
that I've had with artwork like when I
go to the Metropolitan Museum and I
stand in a room surrounded by the
greatest creators or some of the
greatest minds of all time I feel like
that unbridgeable distance is is at
least closer for me the best image or
some of the best artwork is is one that
says wherever you are now I've been
there before and that is like a cure for
my loneliness to know that I share in
some way the same human experience as
everyone else on earth I hope that when
people encounter my work and my imagery
that they receive a similar experience
that I do when I see something that
affects me in the best moments I hope
that their loneliness is cured
hey guys it is Sara I hope you enjoyed
this episode of creative spaces TV if
you did give it a big thumbs up for me
and hit that subscribe button down below
if you have not yet I do make these
creative spaces TV episodes but I also
vlog and do other things as well
so do not be shy on the youtubes thank
you again so much for watching I will
see you in the next vlog on Friday until
next time stay peachy
okay bye